Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Now that we're in the posting section and out of the
woods, it only makes sense that we talk about what
exactly goes into a post and what parts are
most affected by the Instagram algorithm.
All right, let's break it down, let's dissect this like
it was a frog and you were in the first grade.
Unless you are actually in the first grade,
in which case, no offense.
This is a blank post and I think you've seen this before.
Some have said the Instagram algorithm is capricious and testy like God in the Old Testament - kind of just made that up.
Excuse me for stating the obvious, but there are about
five different things on this that we care about
and we'll try to optimize in this section.
Ignoring the photo,
we have a caption right there.
We have tags, which show up on
the photo itself or on the captions.
We have hashtags, which can
be in several different places.
We have a call to action.
And lastly, we have a possible location geotag.
Those five things are what determines, outside of
the image itself, how well your account grows.
A good post usually has the following:
it usually has a well thought out caption.
Some people post really short captions, and
guess what? Those don't perform as well.
While most people like brevity on Instagram, for
whatever reason, they generally like longer captions.
I guess it's because some of the more hardcore fans will actually read it all, and if it's good, it will increase their engagement.
You do that a lot and you'll start snowballing
a team of sycophants in no time.
The next thing a post needs is a call to action.
Now, what do I mean?
Well, look at the last sentence in a caption. Most
times it'll be there to tell people to do something.
Sign up for an email course.
Tag someone who has a head shaped like
this object. Like the post if you agree.
Check out this other person's profile.
Whatever.
Every post should have a point and your call to action
is what gets people to do whatever it is that
you wanted them to do.
A lot of people forget to do this or just don't care,
and that's perfectly fine, but they're just not
going to grow their accounts as fast as everybody else.
Next up, we have tags, and to be honest, these have
very little bearing on whether the post is a hit or not.
They're more used as a reciprocity tool for other
Instagram accounts to get their attention and hopefully
get them to do the same as you.
After that, we have hashtags.
What those are, we will get into later.
But here's the short of it.
Hashtags are those words that begin with the pound
sign, and when you have a hashtag on a post, it adds
that post to a public list of photos sorted by that word.
So if you posted a photo of steak and eggs and
tagged it with - and yes, it's tagged it with,
even though we already have tags, I don't
know why, but that's the way you say it -
let's say you did it with #breakfast, then when anyone
searches for #breakfast on Instagram, well, they'll
see any photos with that hashtag, including yours.
Hashtags are one of the chief ways to grow your account, and
accordingly, we have an entire section dedicated to them.
We'll get into these a bit more in this section as well.
Last thing worth mentioning, location tags. When
you make a post, you can tag it with the location.
That way, when people are viewing photos that are
generically associated with a location, you do this
just by searching a location and clicking on the
dropdown that has a location bubble or pin.
Also, the best photos in each location get put together
in the top post that show at the top of this
view and in stories that automatically
get posted in several spots on the app.
Not everyone uses a location because, well, not all
posts have a location associated with them, and
that's perfectly fine. If you can fit a location then that's
better, because, well, that's just extra exposure.
Also worth noting is you can make up your location.
There's nothing that says you have to check in
at Applebee's if you're at Applebee's.
Nothing really to be ashamed of.
They have great apps.
So when we post, we need to check off each of these boxes.
No, I'm not saying, d'oh, you need to put a caption.
I mean, we need to focus on doing
the best we can in each category.
That's how you grow, not just by winging it, and
forgetting to do something.
So in terms of the almighty algorithm, the thing we live and
die by, basically, what should we be most concerned about?
Well, the almighty algorithm, peace be
upon him, cares primarily about two things:
your engagement rate and your average time on a post.
First thing is a magical number that we'll use later
on when evaluating accounts to partner with,
and it's pretty easy to do.
You take the total number of interactions you have
on a post, interactions meaning only two things, likes
and comments, and you divide it by the
total number of followers the account has.
OK, let's say you had 25 interactions on a post,
could be 15 comments and 10 likes or 20 likes
and 5 comments. Whatever they are,
they weigh the same in this calculation.
And let's say you had 500 followers.
OK, 25 divided by 500 is 5%.
And in the land of Instagram, that is
actually an excellent engagement rate.
Good for me, made up example.
The average for all accounts site
wide is something shy of like 2%, and it varies pretty
heavily depending on the industry you're in.
Some get higher, some get lower just naturally.
So, if you're getting 5% consistently, then
you are doing something very right.
The other number they care about
is the time spent on your post.
Now, no one is 100% sure how this is calculated or
weighted, but even if someone doesn't like your
post or comment on it, they still know how long they
sat there and looked at your photo, watched your
photo or scrolled through the comments.
They use this just as a general barometer
of how engaging this content is,
and is this account targeting the
right people with the right stuff?
So keep those two terms in the back of your pocket,
because they'll be useful to keep in mind as we move
through the course - engagement
rate per post and time on post.
Unfortunately, if I had to tell you the absolute
specifics of the algorithm itself, I'd have to kill you,
but we're not going to do that.
All right.
You now know what matters when we post.
We tinker with the caption, the call to action,
the tags, the location, the hashtags,
and we do all of this so that we can move the needle
on two metrics - time on post and engagement rate.
That is all that matters in this sad life.
On that note, see you in the next lecture.